README.md, before:

# GCX Common Libs

## Table of Contents
- [Libraries](#libraries)
- [Gradle Plugins](#gradle-plugins)
  - [Plugins Description](#plugins-description)
- [How to add to your project?](#how-to-add-to-your-project)
- [Contributing to the common libs](#contributing-to-the-common-libs)
- [Publishing](#publishing)
- [Projects adopting the GCX Common Libs](#projects-adopting-the-gcx-common-libs)

## Libraries
The following libraries are currently present and can be added as a dependency into your project:

- Base Entity
   - Includes:
     - `BaseEntity`
     - `AuditBaseEntity`
     - `BaseJpaRepository`
     - `BasePagingAndSortingRepository`
     - `Converter` 
       - Non-nullable version of the [Spring Converter](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/convert/converter/Converter.html#convert-S-)
   - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside dependencies:
     - `implementation("net.grandcentrix.component:base-entity")`
- Test Containers
  - One test container for all of your integration tests
  - Includes: 
    - `BaseIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseDatabaseIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseDataJpaIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseSpringBootIntegrationTest`
  - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside dependencies:
    - `testImplementation("net.grandcentrix.component:test-containers")`
- Artur Bosch Detekt
   - Contains the plugin's resource files
   - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside plugins:
     - `id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.detekt")`
- Kotlin Logger
   - Contains the plugins resource files
   - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside plugins:
       - `id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.kotlin-logger")`

## Gradle Plugins
These plugins were created to facilitate the creation of new libraries and also to be used within your projects.
For example, for a new Spring Boot App, you could add the following plugins:
```
plugins {
    id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.spring-boot-app")
    id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.detekt")
    id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.kotlin-logger")
}
```
Those plugins will include all the minimal common dependencies and configurations for a GCX Spring Boot based app. 
The Plugins are structured as follows:
```mermaid
graph TD;
kotlin-base --> detekt
kotlin-base --> kotlin-logger
kotlin-base --> spring-boot-base
kotlin-base --> springdoc-openapi
kotlin-base --> github-publish
spring-boot-base --> spring-boot-app
spring-boot-base --> spring-boot-lib
spring-boot-lib --> spring-boot-starter
```
That means that if you include the `spring-boot-app` plugin, you are also including the `spring-boot-base` and `kotlin-base` plugins as transitive dependencies.

> Make sure to include one of these plugins as a base when developing a new library

### Plugins Description
- Kotlin Base
   - For all kotlin libraries
   - It sets Java version to 17
   - Includes JUnit, AssertK and Spring MockK
- Detekt
   - Static Code Analysis
   - Adds default configurations into your project
- Spring Boot Base
   - The base for all Spring libs
   - Include JPA
   - Spring Boot Starter Test
     - Excluding `junit-vintage-engine` and `mockito-core`
- Spring Boot Lib
   - Base for Spring Boot Libs
   - Disables `tasks.bootJar`
   - Enables `tasks.jar`
- Spring Boot Starter
   - Base for all Spring Boot Starters
   - Includes Auto Configuration dependencies
- Spring Boot App
   - Base for your Spring application
   - Includes 
     - spring-boot-starter-security
     - spring-boot-starter-web
     - spring-boot-starter-validation
     - spring-boot-starter-actuator
     - jackson-module-kotlin
- Kotlin Logger
   - Automatically includes default logging config into your project after build
   - Includes kotlin logging
     - io.github.microutils:kotlin-logging-jvm
     - ch.qos.logback.contrib:logback-json-classic
     - ch.qos.logback.contrib:logback-jackson
- SpringDoc OpenAPI
   - Includes `springdoc-openapi` dependencies
- Publish
    - Internal plugin to publish libs and plugins into this repository

## How to add to your project

1. Go to [https://github.com/settings/tokens/new](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new?description=gcx-common-libs&scopes=read:packages)
2. Create a Github Token with `read:packages` permission (and `write:packages` if you want to contribute to publish new versions)
3. Copy the token
4. Create or edit the file `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` in your machine. You need at least the following two lines:
    ```kotlin
    github.user=<your github.com username for grandcentrix>
    github.token=<the token as copied>
    ```
5. Go back to Github and enable SSO for GCX-SI (by clicking “Authorize” next to GCX-SI and follow the instructions)
6. Add the package repository:
    ```kotlin
    repositories {
        maven {
            name = "GitHubPackages"
            url = uri("https://maven.pkg.github.com/GCX-SI/gcx-common-libs")
            credentials {
                username = project.findProperty("github.user") as String? ?: System.getenv("GITHUB_USER")
                password = project.findProperty("github.token") as String? ?: System.getenv("GITHUB_TOKEN")
            }
        }
    }
    ```
   > Unfortunately this has to be added for each repository. So if you have already added the ACM repo, you still need to add the common libs repository. 
7. Add the desired dependencies and plugins:
    ```kotlin
    plugins {
        id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.spring-boot-app")
        id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.detekt")
        id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.kotlin-logger")
    }
   
    dependencies {
        implementation("net.grandcentrix.component:base-entity")
    }
    ```

## Contributing to the common libs
If you would like to contribute:

1. Create a pull-request
2. Collect and address feedback from other colleagues (try `#cc-si` slack channel)
3. Merge it
4. Publish it
5. Communicate on `#cc-si` slack channel about your new additions

## Publishing

> Make sure your token has `write:packages` and access to GCX-SI org

`./gradlew publish -Pversion=[version]` 

## Projects adopting the GCX Common Libs
1. [B.E.G. LUXoNET](https://github.com/GCX-SI/beg-luxonet-mono/tree/main/backend)

Commit message:

Add image name substitutor example and testcontainers readme (#17)
* Add image name substitutor example and testcontainers readme

* adds a base container image substitute

* removes mention to old ImageNameSubstitutorExample

README.md, after:

# GCX Common Libs

## Table of Contents
- [Libraries](#libraries)
- [Gradle Plugins](#gradle-plugins)
  - [Plugins Description](#plugins-description)
- [How to add to your project?](#how-to-add-to-your-project)
- [Contributing to the common libs](#contributing-to-the-common-libs)
- [Publishing](#publishing)
- [Projects adopting the GCX Common Libs](#projects-adopting-the-gcx-common-libs)

## Libraries
The following libraries are currently present and can be added as a dependency into your project:

- Base Entity
   - Includes:
     - `BaseEntity`
     - `AuditBaseEntity`
     - `BaseJpaRepository`
     - `BasePagingAndSortingRepository`
     - `Converter` 
       - Non-nullable version of the [Spring Converter](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/core/convert/converter/Converter.html#convert-S-)
   - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside dependencies:
     - `implementation("net.grandcentrix.component:base-entity")`
- Test Containers. For more details check its [README](libs/test-containers/README.md) file
  - Provides a PostgreSQL test container as a singleton to be used in all of your integration tests
  - Includes: 
    - `BaseIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseDatabaseIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseDataJpaIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseSpringBootIntegrationTest`
    - `BaseContainerImageSubstitute`
  - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside dependencies:
    - `testImplementation("net.grandcentrix.component:test-containers")`
- Artur Bosch Detekt
   - Contains the plugin's resource files
   - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside plugins:
     - `id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.detekt")`
- Kotlin Logger
   - Contains the plugins resource files
   - Add it to your `build.gradle.kts` inside plugins:
       - `id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.kotlin-logger")`

## Gradle Plugins
These plugins were created to facilitate the creation of new libraries and also to be used within your projects.
For example, for a new Spring Boot App, you could add the following plugins:
```
plugins {
    id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.spring-boot-app")
    id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.detekt")
    id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.kotlin-logger")
}
```
Those plugins will include all the minimal common dependencies and configurations for a GCX Spring Boot based app. 
The Plugins are structured as follows:
```mermaid
graph TD;
kotlin-base --> detekt
kotlin-base --> kotlin-logger
kotlin-base --> spring-boot-base
kotlin-base --> springdoc-openapi
kotlin-base --> github-publish
spring-boot-base --> spring-boot-app
spring-boot-base --> spring-boot-lib
spring-boot-lib --> spring-boot-starter
```
That means that if you include the `spring-boot-app` plugin, you are also including the `spring-boot-base` and `kotlin-base` plugins as transitive dependencies.

> Make sure to include one of these plugins as a base when developing a new library

### Plugins Description
- Kotlin Base
   - For all kotlin libraries
   - It sets Java version to 17
   - Includes JUnit, AssertK and Spring MockK
- Detekt
   - Static Code Analysis
   - Adds default configurations into your project
- Spring Boot Base
   - The base for all Spring libs
   - Include JPA
   - Spring Boot Starter Test
     - Excluding `junit-vintage-engine` and `mockito-core`
- Spring Boot Lib
   - Base for Spring Boot Libs
   - Disables `tasks.bootJar`
   - Enables `tasks.jar`
- Spring Boot Starter
   - Base for all Spring Boot Starters
   - Includes Auto Configuration dependencies
- Spring Boot App
   - Base for your Spring application
   - Includes 
     - spring-boot-starter-security
     - spring-boot-starter-web
     - spring-boot-starter-validation
     - spring-boot-starter-actuator
     - jackson-module-kotlin
- Kotlin Logger
   - Automatically includes default logging config into your project after build
   - Includes kotlin logging
     - io.github.microutils:kotlin-logging-jvm
     - ch.qos.logback.contrib:logback-json-classic
     - ch.qos.logback.contrib:logback-jackson
- SpringDoc OpenAPI
   - Includes `springdoc-openapi` dependencies
- Publish
    - Internal plugin to publish libs and plugins into this repository

## How to add to your project

1. Go to [https://github.com/settings/tokens/new](https://github.com/settings/tokens/new?description=gcx-common-libs&scopes=read:packages)
2. Create a Github Token with `read:packages` permission (and `write:packages` if you want to contribute to publish new versions)
3. Copy the token
4. Create or edit the file `~/.gradle/gradle.properties` in your machine. You need at least the following two lines:
    ```kotlin
    github.user=<your github.com username for grandcentrix>
    github.token=<the token as copied>
    ```
5. Go back to Github and enable SSO for GCX-SI (by clicking “Authorize” next to GCX-SI and follow the instructions)
6. Add the package repository:
    ```kotlin
    repositories {
        maven {
            name = "GitHubPackages"
            url = uri("https://maven.pkg.github.com/GCX-SI/gcx-common-libs")
            credentials {
                username = project.findProperty("github.user") as String? ?: System.getenv("GITHUB_USER")
                password = project.findProperty("github.token") as String? ?: System.getenv("GITHUB_TOKEN")
            }
        }
    }
    ```
   > Unfortunately this has to be added for each repository. So if you have already added the ACM repo, you still need to add the common libs repository. 
7. Add the desired dependencies and plugins:
    ```kotlin
    plugins {
        id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.spring-boot-app")
        id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.detekt")
        id("net.grandcentrix.plugin.kotlin-logger")
    }
   
    dependencies {
        implementation("net.grandcentrix.component:base-entity")
    }
    ```

## Contributing to the common libs
If you would like to contribute:

1. Create a pull-request
2. Collect and address feedback from other colleagues (try `#cc-si` slack channel)
3. Merge it
4. Publish it
5. Communicate on `#cc-si` slack channel about your new additions

## Publishing

> Make sure your token has `write:packages` and access to GCX-SI org

`./gradlew publish -Pversion=[version]` 

## Projects adopting the GCX Common Libs
1. [B.E.G. LUXoNET](https://github.com/GCX-SI/beg-luxonet-mono/tree/main/backend)
